#System21 English

The environment is destroyed, wars are waged, people are indoctrinated and deceived by the media and made dependent on an economy that exploits man and nature alike and only rewards the top 1% of society with decadent luxury, power and abundance.

**The capitalist system is dysfunctional for 99% of people** and serves primarily companies and only secondarily people. Capitalism in itself is not the problem, but organizations need to be regulated better, as they act as swarm intelligences without conscience or responsible individuals and optimize profit without consideration of environmental or economical catastrophes caused (BP, Lehman Brothers, Nestle, Deutsche Bank, etc. pp.) and without massive consequences for the companies if something catastrophic happens because of profit greed. 

Only laws could change the system, but legislators (politicians and legislative bodies) are trained, provided or sponsored, threatened or influenced by the capitalist system, in short: corrupted. Legislators get incentives from the economy to continue to give the companies a carte blanche, leave centuries old laws and systems untouched if they serve the lobbies and even the established political parties are already highly corrupted by the industry. To what extent seemingly independent institutions are corrupted is simply unknown.

**It's time for change.** There's movement in society, the youth is politicizing, wants to save the planet that the old establishment wants to exploit to the last molecule of CO₂, protests against powerful lobbies are rising, a replacement of the established power structures by something new is wanted. Anything new. So much that misanthropists like Trump are elected the most powerful man in the world, because he might be a misanthropist but at least he's not one of those well-known politicians. But there is a lack of direction for this movement. For this I would like to describe a solution and call it **"System21", a new system that is made for the 21st century.**

The following basic points are necessary for positive change of current systems into a global system that serves the people of the 21st century:

* Under **Open Source** a **constitution**, a **modern democratic electoral system** with grassroots-democratic elements, a **general accepted legal system** with focus on equality, freedom and dignity of individuals as well as cooperations (and other legal organizations) must be created – under the titles "Constitution21", "Electoral System21", etc. This shall act as model signposts for such writings in order to find widely accepted "best systems" and be oriented towards existing systems. The wheel does not need to be reinvented, but an optimal wheel must be created by putting it together from all the wheels we know. This will show people what a good system would look like, a system that is worth striving for. 
* A **world government** that enforces System21 policies worldwide must be the goal of the System21 movement to fill the loopholes created by globalization, prevent wars, and achieve true worldwide evolution in the sense of positive change for all people. To this end, a party should be founded named "System21" in every existing political system, whose goal should be to anchor the principles of System21 in the respective political system, and / or thus to fundamentally change the current system. System21 parties should collaborate internationally. A model for this is the Pirate Party, possibly a direct cooperation (by representing System21 values) is also possible. 
* **Transparency must be a basic principle**, lies, deception, corruption and fake news must be easily recognizable as such. Standards and certificates are needed, which in turn identify standards, parties and organizations as System21-compatible - as a kind of meta-certificate. If a standard or a certificate is to be compatible, it must be completely transparent, i.e. the funding must be disclosed, the implications of funding and the certification given must be clearly defined and demonstrated to citizens in a short and understandable form, as well as with numerous source references and Wikipedia-style explanations for experts. Politicians representing System21 values must disclose their funds to ensure that they do not receive funds from third parties that may have political motives. In the sense of transparency, System21 should evaluate standards, movements, governments, systems and certificates, and thus be a control authority for control authorities and trust insurance. If such a certificate is issued, it can be revoked at any time. The System21 certificate is intended to help citizens understand which products, organizations, certificates and parties are compatible with System21.
* **Whistleblowing is a necessary protection mechanism of all organizations against corruption**. A whistleblower who brings moral, ethical or systemic errors to the public must not be prosecuted. Whistleblowers must be protected and also promoted within System21 parties to ensure that organizations in System21 do not permanently get corrupted. If corruption is discovered by individuals involved in a System21 organization, it is permanently excluded from all System21 organizations in order to rule out any suspicion of corruption in the system and the case is presented to the public and any remediation necessary and possible is done. Supporting transparency and whistleblowing within System21 organizations is the main facilitator of trust to the public.

These are the main objectives. Further values and principles of System21 are:
* There should be plurality and openness to existing positions and rules in order to promote meaningful positions of other parties and organizations and to include them in a consensus of values. It is important to leave behind previous positions of System21 if they have been identified as outdated or unacceptable. A system that does not evolve is a system that can be exploited and corrupted. Mistakes have to be regretted, but not repeated.
* Pacifist protest / demonstrations should be used to achieve the goals of System21, violence is not a solution. If System21 nevertheless inspires violence from third parties (which should be avoided if possible), responsibility for it cannot be taken.
* System21 is interested in the sustainable change of the economy and laws that ensure that as many habitats of the planet as possible are preserved or made habitable again. CO₂ Tax is a clear must as an incentive for the economy. Game theory with its incentive systems should generally be used for more systemically relevant problems.
* It must be in the spirit of System21 to reduce conflicts and ensure win-win-win situations, i.e. in addition to two partners in an agreement, third parties, i.e. other (eco-) systems, people or groups should not be harmed. If this does happen, an attempt should be made to put into place appropriate compensation and to minimize damage as far as possible. Nevertheless, when decisions for the future are made sacrifices will be necessary - coal jobs must be lost, but help or new jobs for the workers can be created.
* System21 organizations, parties and members are attacked, defamed, threatened and harassed from outside. All System21 organizations should work united and help each other to protect the movement as a whole.
* Within the System21 organizations, members must take responsibility for their mistakes and act in a spirit of decency and morality. Those who admit their mistakes can be pardoned (but can loose their office or membership status depending on the severity of the mistake), but those who try to cover up their mistakes and are caught doing so must be permanently removed from all System21 organizations as corruption must be removed as good as possible.
* The people must be able to rely on their representatives. But in order to prevent corruption in politics on a permanent basis, there must be a grassroots-democratic tool that can demand decisions in the legislature and, under very great pressure from the social base, can also drive decisions to a referendum. A system like in Switzerland can serve as a model for this. 
* The economy should be more in the hands of the citizens. Company ownership models where the company belongs to the employees or can acquire shares in the company should be promoted. To this end, the currency is to be converted to secure and cost-effective block-chain-based currencies, which will lead to a withdrawal of control of the currency from banks and states and a drastic reduction in costs for citizens. Blockchain also enables forgery-proof electronic voting systems, which would be particularly useful in countries where elections where demonstrably manipulated, e.g. many 3rd world countries, Turkey or the USA.
* Decisions should be made more technocratically, scientists should again be involved in the discourse and decisions should be based on scientifically verifiable facts instead of lobbying and politics.
* Funding of System21 organizations should be applied for through public funds and disbursed through political research through European and national funding.

But how does one get from such a paper with principles to a multinational organization? The approach: Open Source, everyone can participate, slow but steady wins the race.

Anyone can discuss and improve theoretical papers: Here is the link to the [System21 manifestos on Github](https://github.com/system-21/manifest), which also contains this text. In the [Issues](https://github.com/system-21/manifest/issues), ToDos can be created and improved. Here is the link to the entire [System21 Github repositories](https://github.com/system-21) where the theoretical papers are to be created. Another possibility would be to attract public funds for political parties, charitable organizations and research projects for System21 in order to be able to pay for necessary work - corresponding applications can also be made there.

Further developments, OpenSource repositories etc. will be linked here. Feed free to improve on this if you like the concept.
